Victor Chen

5/4/17
Goal for today: Research the necessary parts of making an online chatroom.
	What I did today: Looked into examples of simple chatrooms online.  
	
5/5/17
Goal for today: Start coding in html to refresh memory. Building a small website with php capabilities.

UPDATE: changing programming language to JAVA instead of javascript.
		
		BUT, nockles said that a chatroom itself is too simple
		MAIN GOAL: Make the Java chatroom have voice capabilities and have it work on Vaadin
		- Vaadin Tutorial is on orcmath
		https://sites.google.com/site/orcmath/tutorials/vaadin-gae 
		
		- Chatroom Tutorial is on thenewboston youtube channel
		https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pr02nyPqLBU
		^ tutorial for creating a basic instant messenger in java
Goal for today/weekend: Watch the 5 videos on the instant messenger program to understand how 
						the program works and how to divide up the roles. 
RESEARCH: How to make a computer a server host and how to have voice chat in java
	What I did today: Refocused the group on the new design path. Discussed the differences 
					  between Javascript and Java in creating a messenger program. 
	
Goal for MONDAY: Start coding the basic messenger system. Have the roles and skills divided among the members. 
				 All group members suffficiently understand new concepts and syntax in building a basic instant messenger.

5/8/17
Goal for today: Research how to add voice in java. Understand how servers and sockets work. 
What I did today: Discussed the use of Vaadin in our project. Decided that we would build the working
				  java program first and then attempt to port the program to Vaadin/Javascript.

5/9/17
Goal for today: Research how to add voice in java. Understand how servers and sockets work.
What I did today: I looked into examples and syntax for voice in java. Need to find a more cohesive tutorial 
				  to the voice without just copying code. I also continued to watch the basic messenger 
				  program tutorial on thenewboston youtube channel and wrote code to follow along with it.
				  The tutorial is almost done with setting up the server side of the program. 

5/11/17
Goal for today: Complete building the Server side groundwork and work on client side groundwork. (All based
				on java networking tutorial.
What i did today: I completed building the Serveb side program and it works fine. I split the project into two
				  different repositories since the server side and client side programs need to be running
				  at the same time on two computers. I shared that second client repository with the rest
				  of the group members. I also started the client side code.				  
				  
5/12/17
Goal for today: Complete building Client side of program and research more on how to add voice to java.
What I did today: I completed the client side of the program and straightened out the group skills/subgroups.
				Veeraj and I will present networking through video and voice chat respectively. Mahin and
				Gabriel will present reading files and uploading files through the chat program. Finally,
				Joyce will present database through SQL/PHP coding by saving the messages and/or the pictures
				depending on if it is possible to save image objects to PHPMyAdmin.
				
5/15/17
Goal for today: Attempt to connect the program using two different computers.
				Research syntax for voice chat in Java.
What I did today: After attempting to connect two computers where one was a server and the other was a client, the connection was refused. Nockles explained that this was because the school connection 				  				  has a fire wall that blocks direct connections. This means that when we present/test the 				  			      program, our own computers and hotspots must be used. Additionally, the focus of the voice 
				  chat part of the program is tied with the Java Sound API. This means that I will have to
				  find a tutorial for Java Sound and recording/streaming. 
				  
5/16/17
Goal for today: Research more on voice chat in Java. FYI THIS IS SO CONVOLUTED!
What I did today: I did research more on voice chat in Java but there is a lot of complicated code that is not explained.
				  I also created separate branches for each of the group members. There isn't enough time for this symposium when
				  we are already so focused on finishing AP's and doing other classes final projects. 

5/17/17
Goal for today: Research more on voice chat in Java.
What I did today: I took classes from a github repository. Although I did copy pasta, the code is 
				  specifically to learn how to use the Java sound API. I think I understand the basic structure
				  of how Java takes in audio and how java reads audio. The issue lies in that I do not
				  know how to write that code myself. I am afraid that this project may be too much of a reach
				  to the point where I only vaguely understand the code and just copy what I see. I will try
				  to implement this fuctionality in the client/server class I already built.
				  
5/22/17
Goal for today: Understand voice syntax well enough to start coding basic samples of voice to send.
What I did today: Today I looked into Java Sound API even more. I still don't understand how to syntax works. 
				  Judging by the lack of progress, our group will most likely not be able to have any 
				  substantial work to present. We will still attempt to make progress individually and if
				  there is a breakthrough then we can see what we can do. I think I was too ambitious with
				  the project. I'll see if I can tone down the difficulty of the skill so that it may be
				  something along the lines of sending a voice message rather than sending streams of voice
				  data packets.
				  
5/23/17
Goal for today: Same as yesterday: Understand voice syntax well enough to start coding basic samples of 
				voice to send.
What I did today: Today I started implementing voice into the chat program. I added a voice button to the 
				  JFrame that when clicked, starts recording with the computer's mic. However, when I click
				  the button, it says the the line interface is not supported. Error is on line 33 of 
				  MicThread. I will look into fixing this error and connecting the client and server together
				  with the voice program. Testing on computers other than the school computers is still
				  necessary. Meanwhile, Veeraj's login client does not work with the current messenger system.
				  After logging in, the client JFrame is blank. I tried to fix it, but could not find a 
				  solution. I will also look into JFrame interference between the two programs.
				  
5/24/17
Goal for today: Try to fix the unsupported line error.
What I did today: Rebuilt the MicThread class to suit the already build client. The AudioFormat
				is still an issue because the line is unsupported. Not sure how to fix this error. I will look 
				more into the error online but I think that I understand the groundwork for building a sound 
				data from the mic. 
				
5/25/17
Goal for today: Still trying to fix the unsupported line error.
What I did today: Nockles helped me understand what was causing the error. The line unsupported error appears 
				because there is no mic detected. I used Joyce's earbuds to test the program and IT WOKRED. 
				EUREKA! There is no longer an error when I click the voice button. Now I have to build the part
				of the program that accepts voice and plays it on the receiver's end. Veeraj and Mahin's
				parts work for the most part so a part of June will be spent merging the programs together. 
			 
5/30/17
Goal for today: Build input part of voice chat.
What I did today: Today I worked on the input part of the client. I am not done with accepting inputs yet.
				  So far, I created a message arrayList for the sound packets. I still have to decompress
				  the soundpackets and output the soundpackets to the speaker. 
				  
5/31/17
Goal for today: Finish building accepting inputs.
What I did today: Today i finished building the methods for accepting voice but now I have to figure out
				  how to make the program send more than just strings. The base program was built on strings
				  so I will have to add object/byte sending capabilities. Both sides of the program, server
				  and client, have the appropriate methods and GUI for voice. Merging between other members
				  has started. Joyce and Veeraj have matching branches now since their skills are most similar.
				  
6/1/17
Goal for today: Allow cross compatibility between the voice program and the text program.
What I did today: I changed all the instances of Strings being sent to an instance of the message
				  class. The message object class takes in both voice packets and objects. Since
				  Strings are objects, the object class will take in strings. The strings are
				  then accessed through a getter. This allows the same methods to send and show
				  messages for both the strings and voice parts of the program. 
				  
6/2/17
Goal for today: Merge branches with the rest of the group.
What I did today: I merged my branch with Joyce's and Veeraj's branches. There were a couple 
				  merge conflicts because I intend to use the message object class instead of
				  just the string methods in the master branch. I fixed the merge conflicts and
				  text part of the project works fine. I still have to test the voice and net-
				  working on non school computers and figure out whether to use private or public
				  ip addresses.
				  			  